---
creation date: June 18th 2023
last modified date: June 18th 2023
aliases: []
tags: #📖
---

Primary Categories: [[]] 
Secondary Categories: [[]] 
Links: [[]] 
Search Tag: #📖  

# [[03 - Preventative - Attachment Filtering]]  
---

# Attachment Filtering: Overview and Benefits

Attachment filtering is a security measure used to prevent malicious or potentially harmful email attachments from being delivered to user mailboxes. By limiting the types of files allowed as email attachments, organizations can significantly reduce the risk of malware infections and other security incidents. Here's an overview of how attachment filtering works and its benefits:

## Filtering Approach

Rather than blocking all attachments outright, which can hinder legitimate communication, attachment filtering focuses on identifying and blocking specific file types that are commonly associated with malicious activities. By considering the file types frequently used for malicious purposes and the ones commonly used within the organization, a more targeted approach can be implemented to strike a balance between security and productivity.

Some common file types used for malicious activities include executables:
- **.exe** (Executable)
- **.vbs** (Visual Basic Script)
- **.js** (JavaScript)
- **.iso** (Optical Disk Image)
- **.bat** (Windows Batch File)
- **.ps/.ps1** (PowerShell Scripts)
- **.htm/.html** (Web Pages / Hypertext Markup Language)

Typically businesses will use and send the following file formats via email, which can also be used for malicious purposes:
- **.zip** (Archive)
- **.doc/.docx/.docm** (Document file, often for Microsoft Word)
- **.pdf** (Portable Document Format)
- **.xls/.xlsx/.xlsm** (Spreadsheet file, often for Microsoft Excel)

## Functionality and Actions

Email gateways and email security tools offer various features and actions when it comes to attachment filtering. These include:

1. Malicious Indicator Scanning: Attachments can be scanned for known malicious indicators, such as signatures, patterns, or behavior, to identify potential threats.

2. Blocking or Quarantining: Emails with suspicious or potentially dangerous attachments can be blocked from delivery or quarantined for further analysis.

3. Stripping Attachments: In some cases, the email gateway can remove the attachment while allowing the email body to be delivered to mitigate risks.

4. Administrator Alerts: Email gateway administrators can be notified of attachment-related activities, allowing them to take appropriate actions.

5. Recipient Notifications: Specific recipients, such as the security team or designated individuals, can receive notifications about attachment-related activities to facilitate incident response.

6. Logging and SIEM Integration: Logs generated by the email security system can be integrated with Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) platforms, enabling security analysts to monitor and investigate attachment-related events.

## Benefits of Attachment Filtering

Implementing attachment filtering as part of email security measures offers several benefits:

1. Malware Prevention: Attachment filtering significantly reduces the risk of malware infections by blocking or closely monitoring potentially malicious file types.

2. Enhanced Security Posture: By mitigating the threat of malicious attachments, organizations strengthen their overall security posture and protect sensitive data.

3. Operational Continuity: Rather than blocking all attachments, targeted filtering allows legitimate communication to continue without disruptions, ensuring operational continuity.

4. Incident Response Facilitation: With logging and alerting capabilities, attachment filtering provides valuable information for incident response and enables prompt action in case of security incidents.

5. Compliance and Policy Enforcement: Attachment filtering helps organizations adhere to industry-specific compliance regulations and enforce internal email security policies.

It's important to regularly update and adjust attachment filtering rules based on evolving threats and the organization's specific requirements. User education and awareness programs can also complement attachment filtering efforts by helping employees recognize potential risks and adopt safe email practices.


___

## Resources:

| Hyperlink | Info |
| --------- | ---- |


Created Date: June 18th 2023 (04:50 pm) 
Last Modified Date: June 18th 2023 (04:50 pm)
