---
creation date: July 31st 2023
last modified date: July 31st 2023
aliases: []
tags: #📖
---

Primary Categories: [[01 - Malware Analysis]] 
Secondary Categories: [[]] 
Links: [[]] 
Search Tag: #📖  

# [[03 - Advanced Dynamic Analysis]]  

Advanced dynamic analysis is a process used in malware analysis to understand a malware's behavior by executing it in a controlled environment and monitoring its interaction with the system and network.

## Basic Concepts

1. **Sandboxing**: This is a practice where the malware is run within a controlled environment (sandbox) to prevent it from affecting the broader system.

2. **Debugging**: This involves running the malware within a debugger, allowing step-by-step execution and inspection of registers, memory, and more.

3. **Network Analysis**: This involves monitoring and analyzing network traffic generated by the malware.

## Tools for Advanced Dynamic Analysis

1. **Virtualization Software**: Tools like VMware or VirtualBox are used to create isolated environments (virtual machines) to safely execute and analyze malware.

2. **Debuggers**: Debuggers such as OllyDbg or x64dbg allow analysts to step through malware execution, set breakpoints, and inspect the system's state.

3. **Network Analysis Tools**: Tools like Wireshark or tcpdump can be used to capture and analyze network traffic.

4. **Behavioral Analysis Tools**: Tools like Process Monitor or Regshot allow analysts to see what changes the malware makes to the system.

5. **Automated Analysis Tools**: Sandboxing tools like Cuckoo Sandbox can automatically run the malware and generate a detailed report about its behavior.

## Tools

[[04 - Debugger x32dbg]]





___

## Resources:

| Hyperlink | Info |
| --------- | ---- |


Created Date: July 31st 2023 (09:31 am) 
Last Modified Date: July 31st 2023 (09:31 am)
