---
creation date: June 20th 2023
last modified date: June 20th 2023
aliases: []
tags: #📖
---

Primary Categories: [[01 - Security Information and Event Management]] | [[000 - Global Index]] 
Secondary Categories: [[]] 
Links: [[]] 
Search Tag: #📖  

# [[03 - SIEM Glossary]]  
---

## SEM (Security Event Management)
SEM is a process that involves specialized security software for the identification, collection, monitoring, evaluation, notification, and correlation of real-time events and alerts from various log sources. These sources can include workstations, intrusion detection and prevention systems, antivirus software, firewalls, and more.

## SIM (Security Information Management)
SIM is a process that can be implemented using specialized security software. It assists in the collection, monitoring, and analysis of data and event logs generated by endpoints and security devices in a network. Examples of such devices include intrusion detection and prevention systems, antivirus software, firewalls, and others.

## SIEM (Security Information and Event Management)
SIEM is a software solution that aggregates and analyzes activity from different resources across an organization's entire IT infrastructure. It combines the functionalities of both SIM and SEM. SIEM utilizes rules and statistical correlations to detect threats and convert log entries and events from security systems into actionable information.

## Log
A log refers to data produced by systems, applications, services, or other processes. It provides a record of the actions taken within a system. For example, when a user logs into a Windows system, the operating system generates a log entry to record the event.

## WEL (Windows Event Logs)
Windows Event Logs, or Event Logs, are files in binary format (with the .evtx extension) stored locally in the Windows directory of a computer. These logs provide a detailed record of activities occurring on a Windows system, including user logins and program executions. Monitoring and analyzing Windows Event Logs can help track system behavior and security-related events.

## Sysmon (System Monitor)
Sysmon is a Windows system service and device driver that monitors and logs system activity to the Windows event log. It provides more detailed information compared to standard Windows Event Logs, offering valuable insights into system behavior and security-related events.

## Regex (Regular Expression)
Regex is a string of text that allows the creation of patterns for matching, locating, and managing text. Regular expressions are commonly used for searching and manipulating text data. They can be utilized from the command line to find and sort specific files or data on a system.

## API (Application Programming Interface)
API refers to an interface that enables interactions between multiple software instances, allowing for the management of different calls and requests. In the context of SIEM, API access can be leveraged to query the SIEM system and retrieve information. This information can be used to generate dashboards, visual displays that regularly fetch data via API requests, and present metrics such as firewall allows or denies, login failures, alerts generated in the past 24 hours, and more.


___

## Resources:

| Hyperlink | Info |
| --------- | ---- |


Created Date: June 20th 2023 (08:36 pm) 
Last Modified Date: June 20th 2023 (08:36 pm)
